i'm really thrilled to be announcing
shuli chang uh who is an artist and
filmmaker
chain constructs network installation
and multiplayer performance in
participatory impromptu mode she drafts
sci-fi narratives in her film scenario
and artwork imagination
she builds social interface with
transgressive plots and open networks
that permit o public participation
her genre bending gender hacking art
practices challenged the existing
operating mechanisms and the imposed
boundaries of society geography politics
and economic structures
as a net art pioneer brandon uh
uh
1998-1999 was the first work of web art
commissioned and collected by the
solomon r guggenheim museum in new york
she crafts her own genre of new queer
sci-fi cinema with her feature-length
films fresh kill 1994 iku 2000 and
fluido 2017.
from homesteading cyberspace in the 90s
to her current retreat to post-net crash
bionet zone chang takes on viral love
biohacking in her current cycle of works
she represented taiwan with a three by
three by six uh with three by three by
the six a mixed-media installation at
the venice biennale in 2019 and she is
currently working on yuki an
interruptive cinema and an interrupted
cinema work um as well as unborn 09 a
hacking performance with future baby
production she's going to talk about
those in just a minute so i'll turn it
over to shulie
hello grey area festival people
today i'm gonna introduce two projects
i'm currently working on
these are the two projects two landscape
and two state of mind
one is called cyclex which is a green
project
located in andes new york
upstate new york at cascu area this is
project i co-funded with several of my
feature film fresh kill producers
for several years now and we are
actually starting to work on it and
hoping to
mature the future farmers there are many
project initiatives going on at the
moment
including
living architecture making a vertical
garden
different
starting a ghee camp in the summer
so it's a very open
freeform
laboratory
where we are actually pretty much uh
testing
uh the food and medicine with different
uh vegetables and growth
another project is my long-term project
since 2009
at the moment it's been developed into a
feature lens film
called yuki which is a sci-fi viral or
reality cinema
where i'm working with the uk the virus
as infiltrating agents to sabotage
ganon cooperation
this involved
many
3d effects 3d engineering involved also
a lot of
plots
that said the plot is set in 3d
constructing
constructed sets that include e-trash
bill
blast cell vessels and infected city i'm
just going to kind of show and tell and
do some picture sharing with you
um so here as we see one is of vegetable
growing and one is in the blood cells uh
that had the bio net totally sci-fi
with a dna reconstruct re-engineering
so um to know more about the project
it's it's really about who lives here
those inhabitants who lives here so a
cycle x you see wildflowers
you see a mushroom going on the trees
you see
a
kind of
garden that is totally not so
organized in a way but actually very
organized we also welcome different
artists their structure here this is
actually a sculpture
uh that uh sprouts um that actually uh
the water can come out from the
sculpture and water the garden
there's many different kind of
[Music]
vegetables being grown however it
doesn't seem to have an organized lot
so this is actually saffron
by
andy
and these are the
sprouts or the garlic
so of course the project also started
with
when i was working on the project called
garlic ecologiere uh back in 2002 in new
york city was created time
and the farm is now kind of still have
the garlic clothes i'm working with the
rhizome.org in new york
we continue to cultivate garlic here
and the project would be called garlic
equal rich air and it seemed to be keep
going and
in the summer we
this summer we started the weekend we
invited six artists to come which are
having a more of a bio
uh
biodiversity uh focused uh artists that
focus on uh research in uh biotech
biodiversity
and uh
the the project geeker will be shown at
the queen's museum uh later in october
uh as a collective uh our project
um so
to come back to yuki then we have uh
again we have impact inhabitants in uk
but maybe i would uh show you the
landscape or u key first which will be a
3d constructed set of a e trash wheel
this is a very quick uh browsing through
the landscape
so actually i think there is a green and
there is green
so at the e-trash bill you would have
toxic grain uh this is a toxic cow and
toxic
people
however this project actually also it
started development uh in 2009 when i
did a residency uh a hunger media lab in
barcelona uh the project uk is uk is
actually the name of the virus the plot
is a bit complicated maybe i didn't have
time to get into it here now however um
the project since its development in
2009 had gone through
uh several different kind of process
including
uh being a live cinema performance being
a video game or
more like a light
viral game i called it
with the biosensors and
basically uh it also involved a big
corporation bionet who are actually uh
making a bio net inside human body
inside a occupied human body
as a sci-fi i'm free to do anything of
course
so i want to introduce the it's really
at the moment i'm supposed to be in uh
3d production at the moment remotely and
very
small scaly
we are working on the laptop
remote
so these are the characters i'm avatars
i'm creating
for the e-trash view there's going to be
22 avatars or 22 characters so these are
all gender foolish human non-human nerve
geese transmutants and beyonds uh
michaels variants
at the end is very virus related um just
to get close up on a few characters uh
this is um for example
uh this is uh
which one is this
this is one of the characters uh
cosmonauts uh one of the characters or
cosmonauts uh another characters also
cosmonauts as you can see these
inhabitants on the e-trash field
actually dress with all the e-trash that
they can find
um there's also uh
the ozone characters who writes on um
who actually rides on the legacy
uh so
kind of travel
with the roller skates and again is uh
uh
they also wear these uh goggles that
just make up for the first generation of
iphone uh so again it's a sci-fi movie
so i can do everything uh here is uh
alba who is a
pers a human trapped in a jellyfish so
uh
we are developing this whole animation
uh for example but again you know all
these are almost like
the first beginning
of the
or the production so we throughout the
process we should be uh
making more of the adjustment or making
it better so it's a it's just a really
long process and this is the first time
i'm actually showing these uh
avatars as a work in progress in in
grade area platform
for me
it's
a long process to make this film a
concept started from 2009 and i'm
currently in production 3d and next year
i would do the film production in berlin
the film contains like
3d trash wheel and there's also a
infected city and there's also the
genomes bionet so a lot of different
animation
um i just want to talk about the reason
i decided to present these two
particular projects of
that i'm currently very engaged in and
to actually present
two different landscape uh two kinds of
green the toxic green and the natural
green uh pretty much after the the kobe
time as we know or we are still in the
corvette time we still in this very
prolonged uh pandemic
uh of course there is a call to go back
to nature accord to go back to the farm
uh we started as psycho x we actually
started this process of regeneration and
recovery so we it's almost like we have
to rebuild our community to bring people
to come and to farm together and to not
only farm
uh
the usual
sort of sustenance but actually taking
the farming as the next step of
considered food can be the medicine
consider food
can cure and food can bring us together
back together uh to be grounded on the
green land right
as for yuki of course uh is about
the kind of
state that we are in uh when i say uh
you and i don't live in the same viral
reality but we are
in this viral reality that we don't know
how to get out of uh so the virus is
gonna keep
mutating it's gonna live with us
uh and uh
there is probably the only way out is
for us to become virus then right so
virus becoming
i have since 2009 calling my word as bio
bio hack and viral love
and
all these kind of work is again is um
sort of counter the corporation's
control of our body data the cooperation
control of uh very uh of you know
various
body control i think the biotechnology
that is clearly development is going to
change the whole uh biosphere
of our bodies all the nature and
everything so we have to put
into a third
alert uh to this situation uh
again uh
you know so um i guess it it's okay for
me to uh to do this to parallel work uh
in terms of uh engage myself uh with a
group of farmers and engage myself with
the avatars with transmutant human
non-human
um
sometimes it does drive me crazy you
know so kind of feel like wow which word
am i in oh they how do we actually
traverse uh these two land but i thought
the the gray area uh
the theme of the gray area of the
wording protocol this year is very
suitable for me to present these two
completely
uh different projects but definitely not
contra contradiction
not in contradiction because i think we
need both right we need to
push ourselves into a
into a different landscape into the into
finding a different solution uh
and at the same time being grounded is
also super important again is about the
protocols right so if we how how do we
figure out
to navigate our lives now how do we
figure out what is the portal to take us
to the next world uh so there's a lot of
these kind of thinking in my head all
the time and i'm glad to have this
chance to uh present it here i'm gonna
show a very short clip of
of
uk virus rising as a three-channel
installation that's currently on view at
hammer museum
until january 2021 hammer museum in los
angeles so if you happen to go down to
hammer museum the
the piece is called uk virus rising in
the three-channel installation i'm going
to show a little clips of the
documentation
ah
okay so this ends my talk for today
thanks
hi everyone welcome back
um i'm super excited to be joined here
by shulie chang uh who we just heard a
little bit about a little bit from about
her work yuki and cycle x in upstate new
york welcome welcome shirley
very happy to be here
awesome
um
you know i think you laid out really
well these projects and we saw you know
some little pieces from them
um but i'd like to you know just start
out on a broader level on just about
your practice in general and
how you approach this idea of world
building um in your work what's kind of
the first step and how do you start to
conceive of these expansive alternate
realities
uh
for the movie making uh the uk project
actually
it was in the beginning was like uh
conceit as a sequel to my to my previous
film iku which was back in 2000
so yuki was conceived in 2009
when i was doing an artist in residency
at hangar
in barcelona
so at that time i i didn't think i would
particularly go into this direction of
virtual reality or 3d construction or
the landscape
but it's been such a long process of
trying to make this movie
and
in the beginning i was only making more
like a live performance as a game but
then finally to conceive as a feature
film
and so in the process of this technical
change i start uh got involved more into
uh using the game engine unity so at the
moment i'm constructing maybe sixty
percent of the film
will be constructed on unity and also
with avatar building yeah
wow i mean the worlds that you construct
are so rich and most of them are rooted
in um in the ethos of cyberpunk of
hacking um of sight of cypherpunk um as
well
and so i wanna i wanna know a little bit
more about how those ideas are those
velocity
and then how they manifest uh through
your artwork
yeah uh
in a certain way uh
i think i'm kind of drifting away uh
from the reality more and more or in a
way uh at the same time it's a response
to reality you know but the reality
is sometimes is so harsh
and so try to find a different way to
debate it in a way
i think my work is grounded
in reality social reality political
economic reality i think i am
making certain comments you know for
example uk at the end is really
bringing out the cooperation
working with biotechnology you know the
current biotech
development and maybe taking on a
different direction that we don't know
um and also you know usually the the
pharmaceutical involvement
in
uh designing our drugs right so uh these
are all part of the the reality that i'm
dealing with
wow um
the
this
you know how do you you know your work
almost feels in a lot of ways like a
cautionary tale like you're warning the
world against something that that could
that that could go awry very quickly
and i've always really been inspired by
work that employs practices of
simulation to to do this because as much
as we can simulate possibilities we can
also simulate negative possibilities and
kind of learn from what could kind of go
go off course and i'm wondering you know
how
you think about simulation and think
about simulation as a technique in these
fantastic alternate realities that
you're constructing
um
i need to do that
for example the the landscape
the electronic trash landscape was based
on the study i went to africa i was in
nigeria
really had the bit of first-hand
experience of how people are
the african people are taking in all the
e-trash from the
developed country
and how that had to be processed uh
managing to get some couples out of it
for sale for
you know so that's a whole sort of
economic situation also in this way
um
in in the process of uh digging into the
reality uh and
kind of dropping the documentary way of
constructing the reality uh then it's
only way it would be going for these
more hyper reality i guess
hyper reality is something that i've
been thinking about a lot too recently
and i mean it just feels so like
pressing um you know in in current years
i mean i i think i think a lot about
adam curtis's hyper normalization and
the process by which images and
information kind of um indoctrinate and
shape perception and thus create reality
um and you know the way that our current
media environment is oriented
it it it doesn't even feel like an it
doesn't feel like an abstract theory or
concept at all you can feel it happening
in real time as you hear things that you
know not to be true and you
you know the car you know everyone that
i'm talking to right now like you know
every my co-workers my friends my family
the world just feels so bewildered right
now there's this real feeling of
confusion of disillusionment of really
just not what's coming next um and you
know i've always really
appreciated cyberpunk literature and
science fiction because i feel like in a
lot of ways it helps us to understand
how that hyper reality works um and also
helps us to
um you know think through ways of
resisting it and pushing against and you
know forging a more positive path
forward um and so you know i'm wondering
you know how you
you know how you conceive of this
current moment and how you conceive the
kind of hyper normalization of false
narratives and ideas that's happening
right now i mean your work really deals
with the impact i mean particularly with
your work in the gray area diorama
exhibition red pill where we see this
advertisement for this drug
and kind of the relationship between
images and you know making something
false real and how do you kind of sort
through these ideas um you know in your
practice
oh okay so in terms of the development
of
the movie uh it actually because uh also
also uh at the end when i decided to
work on the long feature lens film uh
this started in 2017 which i first got
the french funding
and then by uh 2020 i finally have time
to work on the film script and of course
uh the the pandemic hit so i started
writing the script uh
pretty much during the pandemic and
during the lockdown in paris
and of course what's happening with the
pandemic actually does affect the
scriptwriting
excuse me by the way
by the way of course the script right
from the beginning yuki is actually
uh uk is actually the name of the virus
so in dealing with the uk the virus
during the coffee 19 and looking at how
the vasene get developed by different
pharmaceutical
companies the competition
uh the kind of secrecy of making the
vaccine
the different privilege or who get the
vaccine who doesn't get a vaccine in the
global political sense um it really
affects the whole direction of the
square so in a way that this could have
many different dimensions uh that i'm
developing
uh i have long been informed by the
cyberpunk and later i uh you know by the
time i made fully zero release in 2017 i
did call it the cypherpunk science
fiction movie um i think this involved
any kind of
critic
encrypted
[Music]
coding
again i think and critic holding in
terms of uh
against the the kind of uh as a way to
uh against the censorship as a way to
avoid censorship is very important in
the process of
a hacker trying to
rewrite the codes and
uh
i think maybe in this sense in my work
maybe codes and data
uh really inform the whole uh basic
direction
i mean it's so interesting that this
project was was begun you know prior to
the coven 19 pandemic you know and in so
many ways feel like it you know and
that's kind of one of the reasons why
the work feels like a cautionary tale
because in a lot of ways it was
prophetic um yeah and so how has it been
to continue working on this film and
have has your approach changed at all um
or have you been informed by kind of the
current state of our world in the the
pandemic crisis that we're we're still
in the middle of
uh
yeah pretty much uh quite affected by it
i have rewrite a certain scenario uh for
example uh as in the commercial you saw
the handshake
uh before i had never thought about
handshake as a way of
connection
uh so
you remember in the beginning of
pandemic even now like we are not
supposed to have handshake right with
like you know what we develop different
way of greeting each other uh piloted is
the the handshake it's like transmitting
web
data right uh kind of well it's not data
the the viral transmission so i sort of
took that as a hint for example so
at the moment like the handshake become
a very
important action in the film in terms of
uh appropriated by the corporation and
that's the way uh that you're gonna uh
sort of exchange the web data uh and
but at the same time during the exchange
of web data you could also easily get uh
you know
uh the corporation the gangnam
corporation in this case can actually uh
harvest or mining your web data through
you know through when you have this
content so a lot of these probably come
from particularly come from uh the
reason uh development in um you know uh
during the pandemic yeah
yeah
sorry um
hi julia hi um
i'm very excited to be here with you now
i love your work it's it's really
inspiring um but i was gonna ask you
kind of like and seeing this is really
nice um the is this the this is the work
that's at in new york city is that
correct okay
because to me it's almost like you're i
mean you're really approaching like data
and system like as a medium so as like a
way to sort of transmit uh concepts and
ways of sharing an exchange
um
can you maybe talk about like because
just your just
the kind of your approach to mediums and
how you sort of see them sort of
disseminating across each other
yes um
interestingly uh because i'm really
focused on making a film and of course
right now we do use digital media and we
use any kind of software you know i have
been working
with
different 3d uh softwares in my 4d or
in the case of constructing the
landscape as i say
using a game engine
unity so it's kind of licensed my
capture uh so
in a way for me uh technology become
available for me or i can have access to
different medium then i would use it uh
in terms of thinking about what could be
kind of advanced or upgraded myself to
another level
i have also worked with for example in
the development uk i have also used a
kind of biosensor so you can actually
put i've developed this wrist
with kind of
sensor capacity that you can
test the the hobby the blood flow and
actually it's like a collective game and
so you you can actually uh
by collectively uh
boost
your blood flow you can actually win the
game that kind of thing
yeah so this that's that kind of a
different medium for different uh
projects and different purpose uh
recently actually i just got a
release of a website uh
also kind of based on this uh
this whole you know at the moment i'm
producing a lot of work uh
hour based on the film uh so for example
i just released a website called welcome
to bionet uh which is a
a commission from the upper project in
london and it's also a kind of
collective game in a way people have to
play together um so
i am interested in trying different
mediums and particularly with
this recent sort of media technology the
update and
the only thing i haven't really tried is
i still fail to create a virtual reality
work i am kind of hesitating yeah about
it and at the same time of course a lot
of my work probably posed in
kind of going in the direction but i i
still called it more like a all reality
you know instead of alternative but it's
alt you know more like
more like a keys on your computer the
all reality
um so this yeah so
i guess i guess just reflect back to
what way just say in this kind of
confusing time in a way yeah i think it
i think it's proper to say that we are
in a very confusing time because
in the process of re you know supposed
to have certain kind of recovery or you
know fighting back and thinking we are
on the upper hand but we are not you
know we still every day have to deal
with a very confusing situation um so
um
it's true you know
[Music]
in this kind of time then uh that's why
when i start talking about psycho x when
i start talking about like oh go back to
the farm or you know working on the farm
uh that probably presents something very
uh tangible right it's grounded is
tangible
um i just spent last weekend at uh at
the farm upstate new york and uh you
know it just feel
so uh
it's it's healthy yeah it is what we
call entering into the recovery and
regeneration
i'm working with many different people
with different skills
different approach to the land and so
this is a also a very interesting
project so it's a you know for me that's
why particularly for gray area of all i
want to present um two very different
realities right yeah
you know julia everybody brought up
cycle act because i wanted to talk about
that a little bit too um and how did you
get how did you get started with this
with this project i mean you know your
work i always think of you know i of
course think of you as a digital artist
working in new media um film and
animation and net art and um so you know
to when i heard that you were working on
this project related to farming i like
didn't at first understand that the jump
and so it was real right
yeah it's for real yeah
so i'd love to know more about you know
how you got started with it what really
inspired you and made you want and yeah
what made you what inspired you to want
to do something more tangible that's
rooted in a practice that is uh much
more analog
uh yes uh in um
during the time i i live in new york
city throughout the 80s and 90s
you know so again the 80s and 90s in new
york was also a really tremendous time
particularly with the
epidemic the aids crisis and
you know but
i think living in new york city is a one
particular thing about well maybe many
major cities have this tendency you know
people go away for the weekend i so i i
usually got chance from uh my friends
who have houses or farms houses upstate
new york so we will go always like oh
let's to take the weekend outside of new
york city and this is always so
rewarding you know if you spend a bit of
time outside new york during the weekend
so i started going to upstate new york
and
we start again hanging out with
sculptors and you know they all a very
dear friend of mine named toby
he's a welder a sculptor but he actually
start getting into farming
uh and in upstate new york and when i
start
uh work you know so that we are very
dear friend and he he does welding he
actually does welding for david
hammond's work right so it's it's like
he always asks me like oh would you like
me to wear something for you yeah
i was like i really had nothing to be
welded together you know because i'm
totally doing digital but uh finally i
really want to do collaboration with him
and then he was saying like well i grow
too many garlic you know i have so many
garlic i can't even sell it uh so one
year i actually wrote the grand proposal
about how to use his garlic as an art
project so
this was back in 2002 i got a
funding uh
i think the funding is called challenge
to the field and i sort of take the
field as really the field you know the
farm rather than the field as to media
field
and propose this project called garlic
equal rich air
and so this was also the time back in
the early
early 2000s this was the time that um we
are all fighting for having free access
to the wi-fi you know
this is a whole long history of
fighting for 802.11
free assets because
again you know there was a time when the
wi-fi start to make available
and
people are start signing it off and
but at the same time we say oh we have
to uh really see we can share the wi-fi
to the people you know we should not be
paying for it all the time
um so i kind of
take the garlic you know if someone have
the garlic everybody can smell it
i make this analogy between garlic and
wi-fi and so become like share the smell
or share the wi-fi so that became an art
project that was shown at venice
vietnamese also in 2003
and
later in 2019 got revised by
rhizome.org in new york
and so we actually continue this project
and
you know um
so
anyway uh so now we have this farmland
uh called cyclex it's a non-profit land
trust and
we could actually manage to do many
things there but it's a very slow
process again you know because of the
there's no funding there's no particular
but it's a very raw place but we call it
like a open forum
laboratory
but the laboratory actually is focused
more on farming yeah so farming
in the sense of food and medicine food
farming for food but food can be
medicine also
so particularly at this time right you
know in you know we were supposed to
launch so many uh different ideas last
year so everything got canceled so it
actually gave us some time to rethink
about which step we are taking yeah
um what a that's a that's such a cool
story and i love to see you know it's so
cool
just like one you know small and
somewhat silly project with garlic grew
into something that was able to serve as
one a really powerful metaphor but
ultimately grow into this
this thing that hasn't meshed the whole
community that you've brought up there
to psychoanalysis
yeah we're gonna try to bring more
people and you know right now i'm
working with uh mushroom compost
and living architecture a little smelly
no
yeah i know but it would be good it
would be fine you know in the farm it
should not be a problem but um yeah
i have a question for you you know
of course you know you are a legendary
net artist you've been working thinking
of the internet material for for for
many years um and it you know and also
you know we were talking about your
influences of cyberpunk cipher punk etc
etc um you know there this moment is a
really transformative moment for digital
art in a lot of ways or at least it's
lauded to be by for instance the boom of
cryptocurrencies uh and nfts of the
different ways that rendering engines
are made really readily available to
users how we've kind of left you know
and so kind of as we're you know
entering the cusp of web 3 you know i
would love to just hear your take on
this moment um that we're living in and
how you think and you know the kind of
relationship between the internet now
and the internet when you first started
working with it um and kind of what yeah
like and within that like what you're
excited about or alternatively what
you're you're nervous to see come to
fruition
um
maybe uh in a certain way everything
gets recycled right we we just have our
70s uh
sort of uh pens coming back or something
you know so maybe the the internet is
coming back uh bypass the internet you
know nft is probably bypassing uh could
be bypassing the internet
and
i'm actually currently also working on
some radio project which uh particularly
focus on uh partisan space uh and again
this is like beyond the 5g you know so
then you have the whole electronic
magnetic field
at the end for me all this media
technology is always about assets it's
always about how sometimes a lot of
times that we thought that we have the
space but it is quickly
uh being commercialized being quickly
being
monopolized
you know the neck is the same situation
i think in the beginning a google artist
when we start using the net that was the
ultimate freedom you know we have
appropriate all kinds of uh
technical uh possibilities
however these days you cannot you know
look through the net without all the
cookies embedded all the you know
without any being tracked and everything
so for me of course the net is like the
loss ground for us
um
the nft of course is based on blockchain
which which again is this is another
whole
uh uh story to debate about but
blockchain is not new nft is not you
know it's not new uh in terms of uh we
have also been uh doing different coins
uh we have all always been um you know
different community
uh local community have been using
different kind of alternative economy uh
at a difficult time
for example
in argentina during the whole 19 you
know during the economic crash in the
1990s that's actually is where
the garlic project came about too that
using you know different uh object as a
different coin you know so right now
we're talking about coin token uh for
example uh so same as uh
um
there is a whole history of alternate
economy happening already so for sure
you know at the moment with the nft
um
well actually we we've been talking
about maintaining the the
garlic token the whole last weekend so
that's also quite appropriate um
i
at the end i'm i'm not so uh i'm quite
open to all this development let me be
saying that
i
look at it as a different phenomenon
tend to happen here and there is sprout
and
we're gonna see which one survive or you
know how people take on to do different
thing with it
a certain certain way or channeling may
survive a certain thing may corrupt
nft of course could
easily
easily collapse any moment and so
uh at the same time we are using it um
so
i guess the
you know it's it's more like in the
early 80s when we started working with
public ss tv for example and there was a
kind of model saying like
use it or lose it you know because that
was like when public assets start making
available that you can start have the
channel
um you know because of the the cable
condition and say okay fine then there's
a you know say
we have to use public assets tv in order
to get our message through and if you
don't use it they will take away this
channel right so at the same so this is
kind of my way of dealing with many
things you know use it or lose it so if
any channel any assets available to us
we use it right
yeah yeah i mean i think that it's you
know we talk a lot about the harms and
the dangers and the apparent inherent
pitfalls of using this technology but we
also don't we don't always talk about
you know ways that we can harness it
ways that we can you know repurpose it
and you know use the good without the
bad yeah as you said use it or lose it
so that it feels that feels really um
yeah i don't know it feels really good
to hear
um
i would love go ahead sorry julia were
gonna say something
oh i'm sorry
um
what you know for
for a younger generation you know who's
born digitally native who's growing up
with 5g in their home with smart devices
um and who you know what kind of
advice would you give or how
would would you want the internet
netizen of today born today to engage
with the changing network and to
participate in a way that is generative
uh positive um constructive anything you
know yeah something like that
it's interesting yeah now i'm dealing
with uh with uh
like the kid yeah the friends the friend
has kid they they can only look at the
screen right they just work on the
screen they only know how to
do fingers through yeah
um
i don't know i play ping pong with them
i was just like how to take them out and
to the park and play ping pong you know
particularly during the pandemic you
know when you cannot do so much exercise
you say okay let's go play ping pong
um
i i think it's uh
by playing ping pong uh is the way that
i feel like yes we we have lost the
capacity to uh dealing with each other
in a physical sense you know
we have a sort of
our so-called social network is totally
uh finger finger as we would say
and so
we need to get back to more social
activity in the way of physical uh
activity including physical exercise or
physical closeness
however again you know
we are talking about building any kind
of community any kind of network
but we have to
rethink about what's the community
building what's the social network
building uh in a very uh
different sense you know
yeah
we only have a couple minutes left but
before we go i just wanna i know that
you know as you're working on uh yuki um
you have been really clear to support uh
and include folks of all different kinds
of gender identities and that kind of
fluidity in the performers that you
involve has been really important to
this piece and to you i was wondering if
you could tell us a little bit about
that process and you know why that uh
has how that's gonna manifest um in the
in the film
yes um particularly um
you know in the e-trash bill we have a
lot of trans mutants and what i call the
human and non-human
uh this is also involved with uh
you know not to talk about the the
biotechnology there's been a lot of
experiment in the hyper lab uh at the
same time there's a whole different uh
uh
bio lab uh web lab also more like diy
bio artist
scene happening here in europe and i
believe in america
this is a certain channel in
communication also
so these all point out
for the bio artist or this kind of diy
bio lab is always talking about like how
can we take
uh
report reprocess uh these technology you
know so in terms of uh dna transfer
sequencing in terms of
hormone gene
modification
how could we appropriate
this technology but in
more human in the kind of we understand
how manageable sense
uh in this particular process doesn't
matter so the artists working for
example chemoros are working on
transplant
injecting the brain dna to the own body
so we are always uh in this transition
of period also because of the
you know we start talking about uh the
kinship you know as the king should talk
about um so
we have to include many living creatures
in our dialogue right so it's when i say
transmutants you know in my film i
include uh a kind of jellyfish human
being combination
so all these are part of the process of
the the tech development that take me uh
to this stage and of course um the
gender fusion has always been uh the
topic of my work um i have always think
um
the trans trans identity or
transformation or transgression
this is all part of my uh area of study
and
i still follow this
procession but
again maybe yuki actually
bringing more of that
transmutant element to the film
and but this
almost become quite a reality to us you
know if you think about what the biola
is developing you know uh so
if you get sick you need a new heart
they would replace you with a pig's
heart right a pig's heart developed from
the cell
uh so we are totally you know we we are
totally out of the cyborg uh
era you know we are now really
transmutant and
all the vaccine or the viral injection
or injection or infection that we have
done to our cells uh we are totally
transmutant
i love that as a metaphor and i love
that as a just as a new terminology
moving past the cyborg into the era of
the transmutant um
who knows maybe the next year we'll get
a you know we'll get a transmutant
manifesto or
yes
yes could be
cookie yeah
yeah so
so that's good
i think we're just about out of time but
i really i so appreciate you being here
this was really wonderful i know it's
really late where you are in europe um
thank you we thank you very much for
being here this is wonderful uh folks
um if you had to um yuki is currently in
development um and there are lots of
different ways that you can support the
film uh check out our website and we'll
show you some different ways of ways
that you can support and check out other
instantiations of this project as it has
been shown in various places around the
world we're so excited to see how you
keep going and see what the final the
final film looks like
i hope so yeah maybe come back to show
the film uh later
yeah that would be amazing
yeah i know
yeah i don't respect it before 2003 so
okay
okay i'm marking my calendar yes exactly
thank you so much thank you so much
thank you good night
bye bye